# **Colina Pola Plata**
_Gnomish_ for: `Canyons and Plateaus`

---
> "It's unfortunate to see the way other nations seem to despise their own land. We elves would never desecrate the sacred trees from our Ancestral Grove, and yet the Platans saw the splendor of their Blackfire Canyons and decided their best course of action was to violate it. They delved deep, mining and blasting their way into the heart of their land that they might lay their hands upon every bit of coal, blackfire soot, and precious metal they could find. They think themselves advanced for their mastery in destroying the land around them. And yet in competitions of destruction, the land always wins. And now, the land is angry."
> 
> - Pontifications of Dynast Aresis Crucif Vol. I, pg: 343
---

<font color="#fac08f">Colina Pola Plata</font> is a state inhabiting the central western portion of <font color="#245bdb">Eldetia</font>. Nestled between <font color="#92cddc">Eldingskaar</font>, the <font color="#b2a2c7">Crucif Dynasty</font>, and the <font color="#c3d69b">Thanadent Swamp</font> it is the most landlocked of all the states, and one of the smallest. It is well known for its deep red and orange color. Its territory is largely divided in two separate sections. Its western side is essentially one large canyon that runs north to south, while the eastern portion is a high plateau overlooking the entirety of the state. The canyon section is dominated by mining towns, with trains that run the length of it. It also contains a bevy of workshops and refineries to process huge amounts of raw materials from the state itself and what is imported from without. The plateau meanwhile is largely inhabited by ranchers, raising all manner of beasts for battle, work, or food. The high ranges of the plateau make it relatively simple to keep them safe from predators and the natural disasters that occur more frequently elsewhere, though they do occasionally have to weather dangerous thunderstorms and tornadoes.

Because of the large geological divide between the canyons and plateau, the state functions in essence as two separate entities for interstate matters, and loose allies functioning as one entity for foreign matters. The canyons are run largely by industry leaders, using democratic election to install leaders. Its capital is the aptly named "Canyon Town" (<font color="#fac08f">Polvara</font> to those who live there), the largest mining city in the <font color="#fac08f">Plata</font>, and is built directly into the cliff face with trains joining it all together. The canyons are frequent hosts to earthquakes and its inhabitants are often met with diseases once dormant in the earth. Meanwhile, the plateaus are run by the wealthiest of the ranchers and land owners who can buy their way into a council that makes most decisions regarding the political landscape. Their capital is <font color="#fac08f">Jessesberg</font>, and is the only major town on the plateau aside from their fort.

The bevy of natural resources in both areas of the state have been a source of constant war from outside nations seeking a foothold. Over centuries of strife, the state has become very effective at utilizing its natural resources to create powerful weapons of war and defensive footholds in its land. The only way into its land from the east is a small mountain pass, where the massive <font color="#fac08f">Fort Redstone</font> stands vigil to screen incoming parties. To its south is a natural barrier of imposing cliffs, too sheer and high to traverse traditionally. There has been erected a powerful lift that adjoins the <font color="#b2a2c7">Dynasty’s</font> valley below, to allow travel and trade.